# Project Synopsis

More plastic is part of the oceans than ever before in history, and that trend is likely to continue into the near future. There are many effects of plastics on marine organisms, and the focus of this project is of the physiological stressors imposted by microplastic beads on _Hemigrapsus oregonensis_. 20 crabs were placed into 2 experimental groups, one with microplastics soaked in clam juice, and one with microplastics embedded in clam tissue. They were left for two weeks before lactate assays and dissections were conducted, to determine the stress level of the organisms, and the amount of bioaccumulation inside gill and stomach tissue. Knowing the rates of accumulation on this species of crab is relevant to both crab fisheries, and conservation of estuarine environments under attack of the european green crab. This is because _Hemigrapsus oregonensis_ has the potential to act as a proxy for different crab species in the face of change. It was found that no HDPE accumulated in the crab tissue at any level. Lactate levels were lowest in the MPfed crabs, and levels in MP crabs were slighly lower than control. These are different findings to a group last year, which found ingestion of tire particles, suggesting that crabs are more susceptible to ingesting tire tread than HDPE. This may inform conservation decisions on crabs, based on the plastics present in a specific environment. In all, _Hemigrapsus oregonensis_ is a fantastic species for studying the effects of toxicants on crabs, and more research is necessary to determine the levels of detriment caused by plastic pollution on crabs in the PNW. 
